.TH CCS_CONFIG_VALIDATE "8" "September 2009"
.SH NAME
ccs_config_validate
.SH DESCRIPTION
Usage:
.PP
ccs_config_validate [options]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Print this help, then exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
Print program version information, then exit
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Produce verbose output
.SS "Validating XML configuraton files:"
.TP
\fB\-f\fR configfile
Validate an alternate config file without preloading it with default values.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR configfile
Validate an alternate config file with preloading of default values (recommended option).
.SS "Advanced options:"
.TP
\fB\-r\fR
Force validation of runtime config
.HP
\fB\-C\fR config_loader
Override config plugin loader
.TP
\fB\-t\fR tempfile
Force temporay file to tempfile
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
Do not remove temporary file
.TP
\fB\-o\fR
Overwrite temporary file (dangerous)
.SH "DEFAULT"
Default operation for ccs_config_validate is to load the currently configured environment
and verify the outcoming configuration.
.TP
Example 1: current environment uses a configuration file (/etc/cluster/cluster.conf).
The user modifies cluser.conf and executes ccs_config_validate without options.
The tool will validate the modified cluster.conf after including default values.
.TP
Example 2: current environment is set to load the configuration from LDAP. Users
modifies LDAP databse and before pushing the change to the nodes, she/he can issue
ccs_config_validate to verify the contents o the LDAP database automatically
(as long as the correct LDAP environment is set in the cman/cluster sysconfig/defaults files).
