.TH "rgmanager" "8" "Jul 2010" "" "Red Hat Cluster Suite"
.SH "NAME"
rgmanager \- Resource Group (Cluster Service) Manager Daemon
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
.B rgmanager
handles management of user-defined cluster services (also known as resource
groups).  This includes handling of user requests including service start,
service disable, service relocate, and service restart.  The service
manager daemon also handles restarting and relocating services in the
event of failures.
.SH "HOW IT WORKS"
.PP
The service manager is spawned by an init script after the cluster
infrastructure has been started and only functions when the cluster
is quorate and locks are working.
.LP 
During initialization, the service manager runs scripts which ensure that all
services are clear to be started.  After that, it determines which services
need to be started and starts them.
.LP
When an event is received, members which are no longer online have their
services taken away from them.  The event should only occur in the case that
the member has been fenced whenever fencing is available.
.LP
When a cluster member determines that it is no longer in the cluster quorum,
the service manager stops all services and waits for a new quorum to form.

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.PP
Rgmanager is configured via cluster.conf.  With the exception of logging,
all of rgmanager's configuration resides with the
.B <rm>
tag.  The general parameters for rgmanager are as follows:
.LP
.B central_processing
- Enable central processing mode (requires cluster-wide shut down and
restart of rgmanager).  This alternative mode of handling failures
externalizes most of rgmanager's features into a user-editable script.
This mode is disabled by default.
.LP
.B status_poll_interval
- This defines the amount of time, in seconds, rgmanager waits
between resource tree scans for status checks.  Decreasing this value
may improve rgmanager's ability to detect failures in services, but
at a cost of decreased performance and increased system utilization.
The default is 10 seconds.
.LP
.B status_child_max
- Maximum number of status check threads (default = 5).  It is not
recommended that this ever be changed.  This simply controls how
many instances of clustat queries may be outstanding on a single
node at any given time.
.LP
.B transition_throttling
- This is the amount of time the event processing thread stays alive
after the last event has been processed.  The default is 5 seconds.
It is not recommended that this ever be changed.
.LP
.B log_level
- DEPRECATED; DO NOT USE.  Controls log level filtering to syslog.
Default is 5; valid values range from 0-7.  See cluster.conf(5)
for the current method to configure logging.
.LP
.B log_facility
- DEPRECATED; DO NOT USE.  Controls log level facility when sending
messages to syslog.  Default is "daemon".  See cluster.conf(5)
for the current method to configure logging.

.SH "RESOURCE AGENTS"
.PP
.B Resource agents
define resource classes rgmanager can manage.  Rgmanager follows the Open
Cluster Framework Resource Agent API v1.0 (draft) standard, with the following
two notable exceptions:
.LP
.in 8
* Rgmanager does not call \fImonitor\fP; it only calls \fIstatus\fP
.in
.in 8
* Rgmanager looks for resource agets in /usr/share/cluster
.in
.LP
Rgmanager uses the metadata from resource agents to determine what
parameters to look for in cluster.conf for a each resource type.  Viewing
the resource agent metadata is the best way to understand all the various
resource agent parameters.

.SH "SERVICES / RESOURCE GROUPS"
.PP
A
.B service
or
.B resource group
is a collection of resources defined in cluster.conf for rgmanager's
use.  Resource groups are also called
.B resource trees.
.LP
A resource group is the atomic unit of failover in rgmanager.  That
is, even though rgmanager calls out to various resource agents
individually in order to start or stop various resources, everything
in the resource group is always moved around together
in the event of a relocation or failover.

.SH "STARTUP POLICIES"
.PP
Rgmanager supports only two startup policies, 
.LP
.B autostart
- if set to 1 (the default), the service is started when a quorum
forms.  If set to 0, the service is not automatically started.
.LP
Startup Policy Configuration:
Recovery Configuration:
.in 8
<rm>
.in 10
<service name="service1" autostart="[0|1]" .../>
.in 8
.in 10
 ...
.in 8
</rm>

.SH "RECOVERY POLICIES"
.PP
Rgmanager supports three recovery policies for services; this is
configured by the
.B
recovery
parameter in the service definition.
.LP
.B restart
- means to attempt to restart the resource group in place in the
event of one or more failures of individual resources.  This can
further be augmented by the
.B max_restarts
and
.B restart_expire_time
parameters, which define a tolerance for the amount of service
restarts over the given amount of time.
.LP
.B relocate
- means to move the resource group to another host in the cluster
instead of restarting on the same host.
.LP
.B disable
- means to not try to recover the resource group.  Instead, just
place it in to the disabled state.
.LP
Recovery Configuration:
.in 8
<rm>
.in 10
<service name="service1" recovery="[restart|relocate|disable]" .../>
.in 8
.in 10
 ...
.in 8
</rm>

.SH "FAILOVER DOMAINS"
.PP
A failover domain is an ordered subset of members to which a
service may be bound. The following is a list of semantics
governing the options as to how the different configuration
options affect the behavior of a failover domain: 
.LP
.B preferred node
or
.B preferred member
: The preferred node was the member designated to run a given
service if the member is online. We can emulate this behavior
by specifying an unordered, unrestricted failover domain of
exactly one member.
.LP
.B restricted domain
: Services bound to the domain may only run on cluster members
which are also members of the failover domain. If no members
of the failover domain are available, the service is placed
in the stopped state.
.LP
.B unrestricted domain
: Services bound to this domain may run on all cluster members,
but will run on a member of the domain whenever one is
available. This means that if a service is running outside of
the domain and a member of the domain comes online, the
service will migrate to that member.
.LP
.B ordered domain
: The order specified in the configuration dictates the order
of preference of members within the domain. The
highest-ranking member of the domain will run the service
whenever it is online.  This means that if member A has a
higher rank than member B, the service will migrate to A if it
was running on B if A transitions from offline to online.
.LP
.B unordered domain
: Members of the domain have no order of preference; any
member may run the service. Services will always migrate to
members of their failover domain whenever possible, however,
in an unordered domain.
.LP
.B nofailback
: Enabling this option for an ordered failover domain will
prevent automated fail-back after a more-preferred node
rejoins the cluster. Consequently, nofailback requires an
ordered domain in order to be meaningful.  When nofailback
is used, the following two behaviors should be noted: 
.in 8
* If a subset of cluster nodes forms a quorum, the node
with the highest priority in the failover domain is selected
to run a service bound to the domain. After this point, a
higher priority member joining the cluster will not trigger a
relocation.
.in
.in 8
* When a service is running outside of its unrestricted
failover domain and a cluster member boots which is a part
of the service's failover domain, the service will relocate
to that member. That is, nofailback does not prevent
transitions from outside of a failover domain to inside a
failover domain. After this point, a higher priority member
joining the cluster will not trigger a relocation. 
.in
.LP
Ordering, restriction, and nofailback are flags and may
be combined in almost any way (ie, ordered+restricted,
unordered+unrestricted, etc.). These combinations affect both
where services start after initial quorum formation and which
cluster members will take over services in the event that
the service has failed.
.LP
Failover Domain Configuration:
.in 8
<rm>
.in 10
<failoverdomains>
.in 12 
<failoverdomain name="NAME" ordered="[0|1]" restricted="[0|1]" nofailback="[0|1" >
.in 14
<failoverdomainnode name="node1" priority="[1..100]" />
.in 12
.in 14
 ...
.in 12
</failoverdomain>
.in 10
</failoverdomains>
.in 8
.in 10
 ...
.in 8
</rm>

.SH "SERVICE OPERATIONS"
.PP
These are how the basic user-initiated service operations
(via 
.B clusvcadm
) work.
.LP
.B enable
- start the service, optionally on a preferred target and
optionally according to failover domain rules. In absence
of either, the local host where clusvcadm is run will start
the service. If the original start fails, the service behaves
as though a relocate operation was requested (see below). If
the operation succeeds, the service is placed in the started state.
.LP
.B disable
- stop the service and place into the disabled state. This
is the only permissible operation when a service is in the failed state.
.LP
.B relocate
- move the service to another node. Optionally, the
administrator may specify a preferred node to receive the
service, but the inability for the service to run on that
host (e.g. if the service fails to start or the host is offline)
does not prevent relocation, and another node is chosen.
Rgmanager attempts to start the service on every permissible node
in the cluster. If no permissible target node in the cluster
successfully starts the service, the relocation fails and the
service is attempted to be restarted on the original owner.
If the original owner can not restart the service, the service is
placed in the stopped state.
.LP
.B stop
- stop the service and place into the stopped state.
.LP
.B migrate
- migrate the virtual machine to another node. The administrator
must specify a target node. Depending on the failure, a failure
to migrate may result with the virtual machine in the failed state
or in the started state on the original owner. 
.LP
.B freeze
- freeze the service or virtual machine in place and prevent
status checks from occurring.  Administrators may do this in order
to perform maintenance on one or more parts of a given service
without having rgmanager interfere.  It is very important that
the administrator unfreezes the service once maintenance is
complete, as a frozen service will not fail over.  Freezing
a service does NOT affect is operational state.  For example,
it does not 'pause' virtual machines or suspend them to disk.
.LP
.B unfreeze
- unfreeze (thaw) the service or virtual machine.  This command 
makes rgmanager perform status checks on the service again.

.SH "SERVICE STATES"
.PP
These are the most common service states.
.LP
.B disabled
- The service will remain in the disabled state until either an
administrator re-enables the service or the cluster loses quorum
(when the cluster regains quorum, the autostart parameter is
evaluated). An administrator may enable the service from this state.
.LP
.B failed
- The service is presumed dead.  A service is placed in to this 
state whenever a resource's stop operation fails.  After a service
is placed in to this state, the administrator must verify that there
are no allocated resources (mounted file systems, etc.) prior to
issuing a disable request. The only operation which can take place
when a service has entered this state is a disable.
.LP
.B stopped
- When in the stopped state, the service will be evaluated for
starting after the next service or node transition.  This is considered
a temporary state. An administrator may disable or enable the service
from this state.
.LP
.B recovering
- The cluster is trying to recover the service. An administrator may
disable the service to prevent recovery if desired.
.LP
.B started
- If a service status check fails, recover it according to the service
recovery policy. If the host running the service fails, recover it
following failover domain & exclusive service rules. An
administrator may relocate, stop, disable, and (with virtual
machines) migrate the service from this state. 

.SH "VIRTUAL MACHINE FEATURES"
.PP
Apart from what is noted in the VM resource agent, rgmanager 
provides a few convenience features when dealing with virtual machines.
.in 8
* it will use live migration when transferring a virtual machine
to a more-preferred host in the cluster as a consequence of 
failover domain operation
.in
.in 8
* it will search the other instances of rgmanager in the cluster
in the case that a user accidentally moves a virtual machine
using other management tools
.in 
.in 8
* unlike services, adding a virtual machine to rgmanager's
configuration will not cause the virtual machine to be restarted
.in
.in 8
* removing a virtual machine from rgmanager's configuration
will leave the virtual machine running.
.in

.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.IP \-f
Run in the foreground (do not fork).
.IP \-d
Enable debug-level logging.
.IP \-w
Disable internal process monitoring (for debugging).
.IP \-N
Do not perform stop-before-start.  Combined with the
.I -Z
flag to clusvcadm, this can be used to allow rgmanager to be upgraded
without stopping a given user service or set of services.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
http://sources.redhat.com/cluster/wiki/RGManager

clusvcadm(8), cluster.conf(5)
