.TH FENCED 8 2009-12-21 cluster cluster

.SH NAME
fenced \- the I/O Fencing daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fenced
[OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The fencing daemon, fenced, fences cluster nodes that have failed.
Fencing a node generally means rebooting it or otherwise preventing it
from writing to storage, e.g. disabling its port on a SAN switch.  Fencing
involves interacting with a hardware device, e.g. network power switch,
SAN switch, storage array.  Different "fencing agents" are run by fenced
to interact with various hardware devices.

Software related to sharing storage among nodes in a cluster, e.g. GFS,
usually requires fencing to be configured to prevent corruption of the
storage in the presence of node failure and recovery.  GFS will not allow
a node to mount a GFS file system unless the node is running fenced.

Once started, fenced waits for the
.BR fence_tool (8)
join command to be run, telling it to join the fence domain: a group of
nodes that will fence group members that fail.  When the cluster does not
have quorum, fencing operations are postponed until quorum is restored.
If a failed fence domain member is reset and rejoins the cluster before
the remaining domain members have fenced it, the fencing is no longer
needed and will be skipped.

fenced uses the corosync cluster membership system, it's closed process
group library (libcpg), and the cman quorum and configuration libraries
(libcman, libccs).

The cman init script usually starts the fenced daemon and runs fence_tool
join and leave.

.SS Node failure

When a fence domain member fails, fenced runs an agent to fence it.  The
specific agent to run and the agent parameters are all read from the
cluster.conf file (using libccs) at the time of fencing.  The fencing
operation against a failed node is not considered complete until the
exec'ed agent exits.  The exit value of the agent indicates the success or
failure of the operation.  If the operation failed, fenced will retry
(possibly with a different agent, depending on the configuration) until
fencing succeeds.  Other systems such as DLM and GFS wait for fencing to
complete before starting their own recovery for a failed node.
Information about fencing operations will also appear in syslog.

When a domain member fails, the actual fencing operation can be delayed by
a configurable number of seconds (cluster.conf post_fail_delay or -f).
Within this time, the failed node could be reset and rejoin the cluster to
avoid being fenced.  This delay is 0 by default to minimize the time that
other systems are blocked.

.SS Domain startup

When the fence domain is first created in the cluster (by the first node
to join it) and subsequently enabled (by the cluster gaining quorum) any
nodes listed in cluster.conf that are not presently members of the
corosync cluster are fenced.  The status of these nodes is unknown, and to
be safe they are assumed to need fencing.  This startup fencing can be
disabled, but it's only truly safe to do so if an operator is present to
verify that no cluster nodes are in need of fencing.

The following example illustrates why startup fencing is important.  Take
a three node cluster with nodes A, B and C; all three have a GFS file
system mounted.  All three nodes experience a low-level kernel hang at
about the same time.  A watchdog triggers a reboot on nodes A and B, but
not C.  A and B reboot, form the cluster again, gain quorum, join the
fence domain, _don't_ fence node C which is still hung and unresponsive,
and mount the GFS fs again.  If C were to come back to life, it could
corrupt the fs.  So, A and B need to fence C when they reform the fence
domain since they don't know the state of C.  If C _had_ been reset by a
watchdog like A and B, but was just slow in rebooting, then A and B might
be fencing C unnecessarily when they do startup fencing.

The first way to avoid fencing nodes unnecessarily on startup is to ensure
that all nodes have joined the cluster before any of the nodes start the
fence daemon.  This method is difficult to automate.

A second way to avoid fencing nodes unnecessarily on startup is using the
cluster.conf post_join_delay setting (or -j option).  This is the number
of seconds fenced will delay before actually fencing any victims after
nodes join the domain.  This delay gives nodes that have been tagged for
fencing a chance to join the cluster and avoid being fenced.  A delay of
-1 here will cause the daemon to wait indefinitely for all nodes to join
the cluster and no nodes will actually be fenced on startup.

To disable fencing at domain-creation time entirely, the cluster.conf
clean_start setting (or -c option) can be used to declare that all nodes
are in a clean or safe state to start.  This setting/option should not
generally be used since it risks not fencing a node that needs it, which
can lead to corruption in other applications (like GFS) that depend on
fencing.

Avoiding unnecessary fencing at startup is primarily a concern when nodes
are fenced by power cycling.  If nodes are fenced by disabling their SAN
access, then unnecessarily fencing a node is usually less disruptive.

.SS Fencing override

If a fencing device fails, the agent may repeatedly return errors as
fenced tries to fence a failed node.  In this case, the admin can manually
reset the failed node, and then use
.BR fence_ack_manual (8)
to tell fenced to continue without fencing the node.

.SH OPTIONS
Command line options override a corresponding setting in cluster.conf.

.TP
.B \-D
Enable debugging to stderr and don't fork.
.br
See also
.B fence_tool dump
in 
.BR fence_tool (8).
.TP
.B \-L
Enable debugging to log file.
.br
See also
.B logging
in 
.BR cluster.conf (5).
.TP
.BI \-g " num"
groupd compatibility mode, 0 off, 1 on. Default 0.
.TP
.BI \-r " path"
Register a directory that needs to be empty for the daemon to start.  Use
a dash (\-) to skip default directories /sys/fs/gfs, /sys/fs/gfs2,
/sys/kernel/dlm.
.TP
.B \-c
All nodes are in a clean state to start. Do no startup fencing.
.TP
.B \-s
Skip startup fencing of nodes with no defined fence methods.
.TP
.BI \-j " secs"
Post-join fencing delay. Default 6.
.TP
.BI \-f " secs"
Post-fail fencing delay. Default 0.
.TP
.BI \-R " secs"
Number of seconds to wait for a manual override after a failed fencing
attempt before the next attempt. Default 3.
.TP
.BI \-O " path"
Location of a FIFO used for communication between fenced and fence_ack_manual.
.TP
.B \-h
Print a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Print program version information, then exit.

.SH FILES
.BR cluster.conf (5)
is usually located at /etc/cluster/cluster.conf.  It is not read directly.
Other cluster components load the contents into memory, and the values are
accessed through the libccs library.

Configuration options for fenced are added to the <fence_daemon /> section
of cluster.conf, within the top level <cluster> section.

.TP
.B post_join_delay
is the number of seconds the daemon will wait before fencing any victims
after a node joins the domain.  Default 6.

<fence_daemon post_join_delay="6"/>

.TP
.B post_fail_delay
is the number of seconds the daemon will wait before fencing any victims
after a domain member fails.  Default 0.

<fence_daemon post_fail_delay="0"/>

.TP
.B clean_start
is used to prevent any startup fencing the daemon might do.
It indicates that the daemon should assume all nodes are in a clean state
to start. Default 0.

<fence_daemon clean_start="0"/>

.TP
.B override_path
is the location of a FIFO used for communication between fenced and
fence_ack_manual. Default shown.

<fence_daemon override_path="/var/run/cluster/fenced_override"/>

.TP
.B override_time
is the number of seconds to wait for administrator intervention
between fencing attempts following fence agent failures. Default 3.

<fence_daemon override_time="3"/>

.SS Per-node fencing settings

The per-node fencing configuration is partly dependant on the specific
agent/hardware being used.  The general framework begins like this:

.nf
<clusternodes>

<clusternode name="node1" nodeid="1">
        <fence>
        </fence>
</clusternode>

<clusternode name="node2" nodeid="2">
        <fence>
        </fence>
</clusternode>

</clusternodes>
.fi

The simple fragment above is a valid configuration: there is no way to
fence these nodes.  If one of these nodes is in the fence domain and
fails, fenced will repeatedly fail in its attempts to fence it.  The admin
will need to manually reset the failed node and then use fence_ack_manual
to tell fenced to continue without fencing it (see override above).

There is typically a single method used to fence each node (the name given
to the method is not significant).  A method refers to a specific device
listed in the separate <fencedevices> section, and then lists any
node-specific parameters related to using the device.

.nf
<clusternodes>

<clusternode name="node1" nodeid="1">
        <fence>
        <method name="1">
        <device name="myswitch" foo="x"/>
        </method>
        </fence>
</clusternode>

<clusternode name="node2" nodeid="2">
        <fence>
        <method name="1">
        <device name="myswitch" foo="y"/>
        </method>
        </fence>
</clusternode>

</clusternodes>
.fi

.SS Fence device settings

This section defines properties of the devices used to fence nodes.  There
may be one or more devices listed.  The per-node fencing sections above
reference one of these fence devices by name.

.nf
<fencedevices>
        <fencedevice name="myswitch" agent="..." something="..."/>
</fencedevices>
.fi

.SS Multiple methods for a node

In more advanced configurations, multiple fencing methods can be defined
for a node.  If fencing fails using the first method, fenced will try the
next method, and continue to cycle through methods until one succeeds.

.nf
<clusternode name="node1" nodeid="1">
        <fence>
        <method name="1">
        <device name="myswitch" foo="x"/>
        </method>
        <method name="2">
        <device name="another" bar="123"/>
        </method>
        </fence>
</clusternode>

<fencedevices>
        <fencedevice name="myswitch" agent="..." something="..."/>
        <fencedevice name="another" agent="..."/>
</fencedevices>
.fi

.SS Dual path, redundant power

Sometimes fencing a node requires disabling two power ports or two i/o
paths.  This is done by specifying two or more devices within a method.
fenced will run the agent for the device twice, once for each device line,
and both must succeed for fencing to be considered successful.

.nf
<clusternode name="node1" nodeid="1">
        <fence>
        <method name="1">
        <device name="sanswitch1" port="11"/>
        <device name="sanswitch2" port="11"/>
        </method>
        </fence>
</clusternode>
.fi

When using power switches to fence nodes with dual power supplies, the
agents must be told to turn off both power ports before restoring power to
either port.  The default off-on behavior of the agent could result in the
power never being fully disabled to the node.

.nf
<clusternode name="node1" nodeid="1">
        <fence>
        <method name="1">
        <device name="nps1" port="11" action="off"/>
        <device name="nps2" port="11" action="off"/>
        <device name="nps1" port="11" action="on"/>
        <device name="nps2" port="11" action="on"/>
        </method>
        </fence>
</clusternode>
.fi

.SS Hardware-specific settings

Find documentation for configuring specific devices from the device
agent's man page.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fence_tool (8),
.BR fence_ack_manual (8),
.BR fence_node (8),
.BR cluster.conf (5)

