.TH GFS_CONTROLD 8 2009-01-19 cluster cluster

.SH NAME
gfs_controld \- daemon that coordinates gfs mounts and recovery

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gfs_controld
[OPTIONS] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
GFS lives in the kernel, and the cluster infrastructure (corosync
membership and group management) lives in user space.  GFS in the
kernel needs to adjust/recover for certain cluster events.  It's the job
of gfs_controld to receive these events and reconfigure gfs as needed.
gfs_controld controls and configures gfs through sysfs files that are
considered gfs-internal interfaces.

Mounting and node failure are the main cluster events that gfs_controld
controls.  It also manages the assignment of journals to different nodes.
.BR mount.gfs2 (8)
communicates with gfs_controld to join the mount group and receive the
necessary options for the kernel mount.

The cman init script usually starts the gfs_controld daemon.

.SH OPTIONS
Command line options override a corresponding setting in cluster.conf.

.TP
.B \-D
Enable debugging to stderr and don't fork.
.br
See also
.B gfs_control dump
in
.BR gfs_control (8).

.TP
.B \-L
Enable debugging to log file.
.br
See also
.B logging
in
.BR cluster.conf (5).

.TP
.BI \-g " num"
groupd compatibility mode, 0 off, 1 on.
.br
Default 0.

.TP
.BI \-w " num"
Enable (1) or disable (0) withdraw.
.br
Default 1.

.TP
.B \-h
Print a help message describing available options, then exit.

.TP
.B \-V
Print program version information, then exit.

.SS Cluster Upgrading
When performing a rolling upgrade from cluster2 to cluster3, the
gfs_controld daemon runs in cluster2 compatibility mode and processes
posix lock (plock) requests from the dlm to remain compatible with cluster2
nodes.  Otherwise,
.BR dlm_controld (8)
handles plocks.

.TP
.BI \-p " num"
Enable (1) or disable (0) plock code for cluster fs.
.br
Default 1.

.TP
.BI \-l " num"
Limit the rate of plock operations, 0 for no limit.
.br
Default 0.

.TP
.BI \-o " num"
Enable (1) or disable (0) plock ownership.
.br
Default 1.

.TP
.BI \-t " ms"
Plock ownership drop resources time (milliseconds).
.br
Default 10000.

.TP
.BI \-c " num"
Plock ownership drop resources count.
.br
Default 10.

.TP
.BI \-a " ms"
Plock ownership drop resources age (milliseconds).
.br
Default 10000.

.TP
.B \-P
Enable plock debugging messages (can produce excessive output).

.SH FILES
.BR cluster.conf (5)
is usually located at /etc/cluster/cluster.conf.  It is not read directly.
Other cluster components load the contents into memory, and the values are
accessed through the libccs library.

Configuration options are added to the <gfs_controld /> section of
cluster.conf, within the top level <cluster> section.

.TP
.B enable_withdraw
Set to 1/0 to enable/disable a response to a withdraw.

<gfs_controld enable_withdraw="1"/>

.SS Cluster Upgrading
See note above about compatibility plock handling during a rolling
upgrade.  The following options are deprecated, see
.BR dlm_controld (8)
for the new equivalent options.

.TP
.B enable_plock
See command line description.

<gfs_controld enable_plock="1"/>

.TP
.B plock_rate_limit
See command line description.

<gfs_controld plock_rate_limit="0"/>

.TP 
.B plock_ownership
See command line description.

<gfs_controld plock_ownership="1"/>

.TP
.B drop_resources_time
See command line description.

<gfs_controld drop_resources_time="10000"/>

.TP
.B drop_resources_count
See command line description.

<gfs_controld drop_resources_count="10"/>

.TP
.B drop_resources_age
See command line description.

<gfs_controld drop_resources_age="10000"/>

.TP
.B plock_debug
Enable (1) or disable (0) plock debugging messages (can produce excessive
output). Default 0.

<gfs_controld plock_debug="0"/>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mount.gfs2 (8),
.BR gfs_control (8),
.BR dlm_controld (8),
.BR cman (5),
.BR cluster.conf (5)

