.TH group_tool 8

.SH NAME
group_tool - display/dump information about fence, dlm and gfs groups

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
group_tool
[\fISUBCOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION

The group_tool program displays information about fence, dlm and gfs groups.

.SH SUBCOMMANDS

group_tool ls -a [-n]

  Queries individual daemons, and displays full daemon and group state.
  It is a shortcut for:
  fence_tool ls [-n]
  dlm_tool ls [-n]
  gfs_control ls [-n]

group_tool ls [-v]

  Queries groupd or individual daemons, depending on groupd compat mode.
  Displays limited cluster2-style output of daemon and group state.

group_tool compat

  Queries groupd about compatibility mode currently running.  Any ls command
  also includes this query and displays the result.  Possible results:
  groupd not running
  groupd compatibility mode 0
  groupd compatibility mode 1
  groupd compatibility mode 2 (pending)

group_tool dump [gfs|dlm|fence|plocks] [name]

  Dumps debug info from daemons:

  group_tool dump gfs: dump gfs_controld debug log
	(same as gfs_control dump)
  group_tool dump dlm: dump dlm_controld debug log
	(same as dlm_tool dump)
  group_tool dump fence: dump fenced debug log
	(same as fence_tool dump)
  group_tool dump plocks <x>: dump plock state
	(same as dlm_tool plocks <x>)
  group_tool dump: dump groupd debug log


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-v\fP
Verbose output, used with the 'ls' subcommand.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print the version information and exit.
.TP
\fB-h\fP 
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.

.SH SEE ALSO
groupd(8)

